[< back to "What is GitHub?"](./0.3_GitHub.md)

[< to contents](/readme.md)

## **git config**

---

When installing GIT, you first need to specify the user name and email address. This is important because GIT includes this information in every version you have fixed and it is included in all commits you have created (fixed data).

The commands

```bash=
git config -global user.name "Your Name"
git config -global user.email "email@example.com"
```

performs a basic configuration of the environment.

This procedure is performed once on each device (settings are saved during updates). But you can also change the settings at any time if you use the same commands. The Git system is supplied with the git config tool, which allows you to get and set configuration variables.

<br>

<details>
<summary> <span style="color:mediumseagreen;"> Click to read more about configurations levels! </span> </summary>
<br>

### **Configuration Levels**. 
<br>

The git config command can accept arguments to specify which configuration level to operate on. The following configuration levels are available:

```
--local
```

By default, git config will write to a local level if no configuration option is passed. Local level configuration is applied to the context repository git config gets invoked in. Local configuration values are stored in a file that can be found in the repo's .git directory: .git/config

```
--global
```


Global level configuration is user-specific, meaning it is applied to an operating system user. Global configuration values are stored in a file that is located in a user's home directory. ~ /.gitconfig on Unix systems and C:\Users\\.gitconfig on Windows

```
--system
```

System-level configuration is applied across an entire machine. This covers all users on an operating system and all repositories.

Thus the order of priority for configuration levels is: local, global, system.
</details>

---

[> forward to `git clone`](/Contents/1_Make_commit_changes/1.1_clone.md)